---
layout: post
title: 2025 BioXPhi Summit in Basel
date: 2025-07-01 15:30:00
description: The 2025 edition of the Experimental philosophical bioethics ("BioXPhi") Summit 
tags: psychology animals morality philosophy
thumbnail: assets/img/basel2025/1.jpg
categories:
featured: true
images:
  compare: true
  slider: true
---

## Attending and presenting at the 2025 BioXPhi Summit in Basel

I recently attended the <a href='https://ibmb.unibas.ch/en/public-outreach/projects-to-the-public/basel-oxford-nus-bioxphi-summit-2025/'>2025 Basel-Oxford-NUS BioXPhi Summit</a>, and it was an incredible experience. Held from June 26–27 at the University of Basel, the summit brought together researchers from around the world to explore the emerging field of *Bioxphi*, where philosophy, moral psychology, and bioethics intersect.

The sessions were fascinating, and I particularly enjoyed meeting <a href= 'https://www.mattiwilks.com'>Matti Wilks</a>, whose work on the moral circle and animal ethics has greatly influenced my PhD project.

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/basel2025/4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1 img-small" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/basel2025/3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1 img-small" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/basel2025/2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1 img-small" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/basel2025/1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1 img-small" %}</swiper-slide>
  </swiper-container>


Basel itself was stunning. The city, the river, and its historic streets made for a beautiful backdrop to the summit.

Overall, the summit was a perfect combination of learning, discussion, and informal networking. I’m very grateful to the organizers, speacilly <a href='https://ibmb.unibas.ch/en/persons/christian-rodriguez/cv-of-christian-rodriguez/'>Christian Rodriguez Perez</a> for creating such a thoughtful and well-run event, and to everyone I met for sharing their ideas. It was a great reminder of how exciting this new area of research is and how much there is to learn.

